---
category: 'relax'
title: 'Writing as the essential daily practice to claim down'
note: 'Reading, listening, and speaking may not'
---

Like many others, especially those who stay in Shanghai last Spring, I have been suffering in 2022.

Overwhelming amount of information keep challenging my mind since last decade after I graduated from high school, making myself a mixer instead of someone enjoying a dedicated lifestyle, I still memorize a lot of things clearly, not matter how subtle it is, but I do not want to be overloaded due to wried things happened in these years.

Writing saved me several times before to help me claim down and stay healthy, mentally and physically. So, now I pick up the habit again, to write something down, to make things better. Starting from writing kind of self introduction as below.

I spent most of my time in schools since born and get raised up in one of those, my family was trying to escape from the countryside and move to cities in my childhood, succeed, we moved to a small city in 2000, thus I have to try to earn good grades to escape from the identity crisis due to the abrupt change of living environment which may make me nobody there, outperforming peers in coursework was an effective way at the time, succeed again, but also started to get nervous from time to time, and keep tasting the loneliness, suffering the procrastination issue from the early age.

In the following ten years, from being a teenager going to finish elementray school to a college student, I was trying to make me smarter by all kinds of methods I know at the time. Not very effective, though probably has made my head bigger than peers.

In next ten years up till now since 2013, I was trying to refresh my knowledge base by exhaustively scanning online materials again and again which I could not enjoy before, I haved got experienced and rebuilt my mind during the time, but also suffering the reading disorder symptoms more often. Also, making money used to be my focus for some time, well, generally, I was always searching for something, something unknown yet, may be something related to physics and music, which have helped me to stay claim if could not get the chance to practice basketball to forget these concerns.

In summary, thanks to many great people who helped me before, I have got a lot to write down, so to claim down now :)