Pre study of related paper on MOOC data

  

Proposal

MOOC early detection of weak and strong learners and modified clustering to combine weak&strong in same group

  

02/03/2020

logistics

-   PACE COC-ICE cluster access
    
-   proposal issues, do not overpromise, DATASET&BASELINE&IDEA important
    
-   midterm, dataset analysis, baseline reproduced, exploring potential improvements
    
-   final, complete all baselines and proposed improvements
    

networks

-   course content partially from Jure’s 224 course at stanford
    
-   jargon: networks(natural graphs) (concrete vs more abstract?) information graphs
    
-   jargon: similarity network? epidemic. google/cisco/facebook/AMAZ as network of xxx
    
-   insight: network as the flexible IR for science, engine for knowledge discovery
    
-   question: drug repurposing’s connection? sucessful story? protein group detection
    
-   jargon: strongly connected components?
    
-   quiz: shape of the web, classmate introduced 2nd and 3rd as 4th option
    
-   paper: Altavista web crawl(Oct’ 99) Tomkins, Broder and Kumar. crowdsource?
    
-   note: In(v) and Out(v) as sets in/on? directed graph. Strongly connected: In(v)=Out(v)
    
-   question: is In(v)=Out(v) enough for defining strongly connected subgraph without=S
    
-   attention: DAG, no cycles, review the alg to detect DAG and think in hyperscale
    
-   jargon: SCC(strongly connected components), max S to be strongly connected
    
-   question: if it’s strongly connected, one would definately go back to itself on graph
    
-   note: find SCC for certain node v, Out(v, G) \inter In(v) = Out(v, G) \inter Out(v, G’)
    
-   intuition: as v would be the mid point for connecting all nodes, so \inter gen SCC
    
-   conclusion: web is a big SCC? as small prob to have no bidirectional two SCC
    
-   hint: island, just one page not linking to others and not get linkedin=small SCC?
    
-   question: meaning of BFS either visits many nodes or (get quickly stuck)?
    
-   image: Bowtie structure of the Web, from the paper by Broder et al. 203M P 1.5B L
    
-   word: legitimate website, did not actually get it, mentioned page rank for explaining
    
-   interest: legitimate and un-legitimate pages auto clustering? Both like to link own G
    
-   hint: webpage more closer center in the whole graph=higher rank
    
-   jargon: degree distribution(computation?), k vs Nk log-log linear + long tail in scale
    
-   jargon: diameter, max shortest path dist between nodes in a graph
    
-   question: denominator when calc diameter
    
-   jargon: clustering coefficient
    

02/05/2020

-   started from clustering coefficients(CC)
    
-   example: MSN 180M people, more than 1B edges
    
-   jargon: multi-graph, like contact vs conversition edges for MSN network
    
-   jargon: weakly connected components, BFS on nodes(on output, just in to expand)
    
-   math: log log graph for cluster number and cluster size, neighbor vs node number
    
-   MSN, degree distribution P(k) = 14.1, path length h = 6.6, CC=0.11
    
-   example: Erdos-Renyi/Small-world random graph models
    
-   jargon: Gn,p-undirected graph, edge exists by prob, Gn, m-uniformly pickup
    
-   math: m = p*n(n-1)/2, P(E)=(Emax, E)pE(1-p)(Emax-E), binomial distribution E edges
    
-   hint: random process introduced at the point
    
-   eliminated: exptect degree of a node E[Xv] = … = (n-1)p, sigma=p(1-p)(n-1)
    
-   word: vicinity, for explaining n increases, the expected degree has smaller sigma?
    
-   hint: 组合数学会对 network related research 有用, 这和 Yao 带 Lou 的课题一致?
    
-   problem: for Gn,p CC would be too small compared to real graph..? no cluster?
    
-   data: we can look at Actor Collaboration network from IMDB+EE power grids, neuron
    
-   confusion: the reduction to conclude that the CC is p, and why if would be small for G
    
-   finding: real network vs random: CC + degree dist not align,cause of physical limits?
    
-   confusion: what is ER model?
    
-   insight: locality in networks like in computer systems frequently mentioned in AOS
    
-   jargon: triadic closure, 朋友的朋友更易成为朋友 simulated by the small-world model
    
-   fun: Bacon number, Erdos Number
    
-   confusion: weakly connected graph depends on selection of init node? un/directed
    
-   history: Small-world experiment [Milgram ‘67]
    
-   challenge: create network with high clustering&small diameter=>minimize
    
-   hints: clustering=locality, randomness=>shortcuts
    
-   word: lattice, rewire, watts-strogatz model
    

02/10/2020

-   link analysis pagerank and HITS, network based IR&Ranking
    
-   just copy for SEO would work for text-only based ranking, duplication
    
-   trustworthy pages point to each other, pages are of different importance
    
-   degree centrality vs betweeness centrality(shortest path) vs closeness cntrality
    
-   Hubs and Authorities Algorithm: link as votes, 被指向是更重要的一点.
    
-   question: what if self-create tons of pages to link to myself? key: weights
    
-   hint: link based text-analysis + pure link based approach?
    
-   find the experts first? hub: sum of points out, authority: sum of votes from hubs
    
-   question: repeated improvement? possible to classify hubs/authorities
    
-   HITS as kind of EM, what’s the theoritical analysis. Looks like clustering
    
-   word: self-reinforcing recursive definition.
    
-   question: why taking the square root and then squared operation, conver & || ?
    
-   how to ensure that HITS converge, and the bound? L2 norm related? why L2?
    
-   hint: matrix? iteration of h = Aa and a = A^Th Aij=1 if i->j as the adjacency mat
    
-   problem: but the matrix is big and could be sparse!!!
    
-   a = (ATA)a, h = (AAT)h, but why still need iteration??? (AAT)=1 hop, ^2=2 hop
    
-   further acc? a is the eigenvector of ATA, h is the eigenvector of AAT
    
-   hint: need sparse matrix eigenvector computing skills for fastest approach
    
-   hint: only look at the largest eigenvalues, good new AAT/ATA PSD->has eigen v
    
-   question: normalization part get eigen values part no more important?
    
-   pagerank similar to HITS, but unified two values and devide credit based on out
    

02/12/2020

-   from pagerank to random walk with restart, 开课前问了 Prof eigen value 的问题...
    
-   spider traps? all out-links within the group dead ends? no out-links eigen values?
    
-   teleport to save, need to modify M now?? (pagerank as a large scale simulation)
    
-   in practice 1-\beta is about 0.15, means jump approx. every 5~6 links
    
-   dead end 本身就是一个违反了 column 值 SUM 为 1 的列...这些操作和线代啥关系
    
-   分两步, 先 remove dead ends 然后再处理 trap 的问题, 统计上的稳态为啥重要?
    
-   RWR 然后给了 pinterest 的具体应用例子.
<!--stackedit_data:
eyJoaXN0b3J5IjpbLTE2NDMxMzA5ODldfQ==
-->